---
title: Unreal Engine Notes - Artificial Intelligence
date: 2022-03-31 11:58:47 +07:00
---

# Blackboard
## What is a blackboard?
A blackboard is a simple place where data can be written and read for decision making purposes. A blackboard can be used by a single AI pawn, shared by a squad, or used for any other purpose where it’s convenient to have a central place to look up relevant data. Blackboards are commonly used with behavior trees, but you could use them separately from behavior trees for convenience or you could make a behavior tree with no need of a blackboard.

## Why use blackboards?
### 1. To make efficient Event-Driven behaviors:
Changes to the blackboard can throw events to change the flow in the behavior tree without having to update every frame to check the value.

### 2. To cache calculations:
Some data has to be calculated, which can be a pain to do repeatedly or simply expensive for performance. Therefore, it’s frequently desirable to cache the calculated value for use throughout the behavior tree so it doesn’t have to be repeatedly recalculated.

It’s more performance efficient to calculate the values less frequently, and it’s easier and less error-prone as well. If you recalculate the data in more than one place, you may accidentally calculate it differently (especially if you tweak the calculation after first creating it). Then your entire behavior may suffer from inconsistent values.

### 3. To centralize data:
Blackboards are a nice way to centralize data and remove the need for extra knowledge about where that data comes from. Without blackboards, you often have to go through a number of steps to query information that’s stored in various different classes.

**For example:** get the AI Controller, and ask it for the Pawn or Character. From the Character, ask for the CrouchedEyeHeight. Or, from the Character, get the MovementComponent, cast it to your game’s special derived class MyGameCharacterMovementComponent, and then ask whether the character is sliding. Get the AI Controller and ask what its current Enemy is. Taking all of these steps whenever you want to read data is a pain.

Instead, you can use a service or some other class to post relevant data to the blackboard, and all read access can then be greatly simplified. Centralizing data in this way is especially helpful for keeping code properly encapsulated!

**NOTE:** It’s not always best to post every bit of data you can fetch from various classes to the Blackboard. Deciding what belongs in the blackboard and what should be fetched from its primary data location is something that you need to decide on a case-by-case basis. 

## Blackboard types:
- **Bool:** Basic Boolean type support, i.e. “True” or “False”.
- **Int:** Integer type support, i.e. -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, etc.
- **Float:** Floating point numerical support: I.E. -7.3, 8.523 * 10^5, etc.
- **Vector:** A three-dimensional vector (FVector in code). Defaults to (FLOAT_MAX, FLOAT_MAX, FLOAT_MAX) so that you can distinguish vectors which have been set from uninitialized vectors. (If it defaulted to a zero vector (0,0,0), you’d be unable to tell if it was set but really WANTED to be zero vs. unset.)
- **Enum:** For data-created enumerated types, which are assets that define a list of named values. Once you choose “Enum”, you need to specify the enum asset as well (under another subtab).
- **NativeEnum:** For code-created enumerated types which are exposed to blueprints. (I.E. UENUM(BlueprintType)). Once you specify NativeEnum, you need to type in the name of that enum in code. Note that the name always starts with “E”. If you type it correctly (an hit enter), “Is Enum Name Valid” will be checked. This is a little cumbersome at the moment, so hopefully down the road we can provide a dropdown of valid enums rather than requiring they be typed by hand.
- **String:** Character String (FString) support.
- **Name:** Similar to string support, but names (FName in code) are identified by a unique identifier, so equals/not-equals comparisons are very fast.
- **Object:** UObject support, i.e. most other types of complex objects in UE4, including components and actors. Once you choose UObject, you can further specify the type to allow only actors of a specific class (or classes derived from that class).
- **Class:** UClass support, i.e. the class of an object type, not the object itself.

# Decorators
A decorator is just a Boolean condition for the execution of a node. It checks a condition, and is typically used within a Selector or Sequence block. In almost every case these nodes are purely conditionals used to calculate variables and return true or false. The node is placed on either a Composite node or a Task node and acts as the conditional for the nodes below. The true or false result is used to determine whether or not the execution path can continue down the subtree or the task below the decorator.

# Tutorials
- [Hearing AI](https://www.orfeasel.com/implement-ai-hearing-using-c/)
- [Jumping AI](https://www.orfeasel.com/implement-ai-hearing-using-c/)
- [Epic Games tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iY1jnFvHgbE&ab_channel=UnrealEngine)
